Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn the sizeof
operator.
So using sizeof operator we can get the size
of a variable or a datatype and in GCC
sizeof(int) = 4
That is the Integer datatype allocates 4 bytes
to store the value and the sizeof (char) will
be equal to one that is the character data type
allocates one byte to store the value and the
sizeof(float) will be four
That is the float datatype allocates four bytes to
store the values and sizeof(double) will be equal
to eight and double allocates eight bytes to store the
value
Now let us see a programme and in the main
function
We are declaring a character variable C and a double
precision floating point variable D and we have a print
function here which prints size of variable c =sizeof(c)
so it will find the size of the
variable c
which is a character type so it will print
the size of variable c equal to one
Next we have size of variable d and sizeof(d)
will return eight since it is a double and
the next print function will print sizeof(10)
So 10 is an integer so size of 10
will return 4. So that's all and thank you for
watching this video